                    # 2.2.5.2 Natural light
   Branch of physics that studies light
   infrared light.^[2]^[3] The study of optics extends to other forms of
   electromagnetic description of light, however, complete electromagnetic
   descriptions of light are often difficult to apply in practice.
   common of these, geometric optics, treats light as a collection of rays
   light, which includes wave effects such as diffraction and interference
   ray-based model of light was developed first, followed by the wave
   model of light. Progress in electromagnetic theory in the 19th century
   led to the discovery that light waves were in fact electromagnetic
   Some phenomena depend on light having both wave-like and particle-like
   When considering light's particle-like properties, the light is
   of theories of light and vision by ancient Greek and Indian
   questioned that a beam of light from the eye could instantaneously
   light up the stars every time someone blinked.^[14] Euclid stated the
   principle of the shortest trajectory of light, and considered multiple
   vision and light based on observation and experiment.^[18] He rejected
   by the eye, and instead put forward the idea that light reflected in
   light from four different perspectives: an epistemology of light, a
   metaphysics or cosmogony of light, an etiology or physics of light, and
   a theology of light,^[22] basing it on the works of Aristotle and
   demonstrate that light reflects from objects rather than being released
   governing the intensity of light, and the optical explanations of
   light was emitted by objects which produced it.^[33] This differed
   corpuscle theory of light, famously determining that white light was a
   prism. In 1690, Christiaan Huygens proposed a wave theory for light
   himself publicly criticised Newton's theories of light and the feud
   over the nature of light.^[33]
   the interference of light that firmly established light's wave nature.
   Young's famous double slit experiment showed that light followed the
   light and opened an entire area of study in physical optics.^[34] Wave
   energy between light and matter only occurred in discrete amounts he
   light itself.^[37]^[38] In 1913, Niels Bohr showed that atoms could
   of the interaction between light and matter that followed from these
   detailed understanding of photodetection and the statistics of light.
   ray) optics and physical (or wave) optics. In geometrical optics, light
   light is considered as an electromagnetic wave.
   that applies when the wavelength of the light used is much smaller than
   refraction of light rays
   Geometrical optics, or ray optics, describes the propagation of light
   When a ray of light hits the boundary between two transparent
       of light. If the first material is air or vacuum, n is the
   of light is the path that can be traversed in the least time.^[43]
   such as mirrors, which reflect light in a simple, predictable way. This
   statistically, with the exact distribution of the reflected light
   may also focus light, but with aberrations due to the diverging shape
   Refraction occurs when light travels through an area of space that has
   the focusing of light. The simplest case of refraction occurs when
   situations, Snell's Law describes the resulting deflection of the light
   light in that medium by
   {\displaystyle n=c/v,} where c is the speed of light in vacuum.
   Snell's Law can be used to predict the deflection of light rays as they
   geometry of the media are known. For example, the propagation of light
   through a prism results in the light ray being deflected depending on
   refraction varies with the frequency of the light, known as dispersion.
   prism will disperse light into a spectrum.^[48] The discovery of this
   phenomenon when passing light through a prism is famously attributed to
   position and, therefore, light rays in the medium are curved. This
   of refraction air with height causes light rays to bend, creating the
   For light rays travelling from a material with a high index of
   transmission occurs; all the light is reflected. This phenomenon is
   technology. As light travels down an optical fibre, it undergoes total
   internal reflection allowing for essentially no light to be lost over
   A device that produces converging or diverging light rays due to
   the lens varies with the wavelength of the light.^[54]
   In physical optics, light is considered to propagate as waves. This
   are not explained by geometric optics. The speed of light waves in air
   wavelength of visible light waves varies between 400 and 700 nm, but
   the term "light" is also often applied to infrared (0.7–300 μm) and
   believed in an "ethereal" medium in which the light disturbance
   light and have varying electric and magnetic fields which are
   the waves.^[56] Light waves are now generally treated as
   to represent the electric field of the light wave, rather than using a
   magnetic fields of the light wave, are required when dealing with
   of light with the material. For instance, the behaviour of a light wave
   be used to model polarised light.
   used to model the propagation of light in systems which cannot be
   amplitude of the wave, which for light is associated with a brightening
   which for light is associated with a dimming of the waveform at that
   to accurately measure the speed of light.^[64]
   incident light. The reflected wave from the top of the film and the
   of light in a range of wavelengths, which can be narrow or broad
   Diffraction is the process by which light interference is most commonly
   the angular separation of light and dark fringes due to light of a
   This equation is modified slightly to take into account a variety of
   optically resolve separate light sources. In general, light that is
   angular resolution, λ is the wavelength of the light, and D is the
   that is, to the first place where no light is seen) can be considered
   [250px-Light_dispersion_conceptual_waves.gif] Conceptual animation of
   light dispersion through a prism. High frequency (blue) light is
   wavelength of light is similar to other distances, as a kind of
   the limit of Thomson scattering, in which the wavelike nature of light
   is evident, light is dispersed independent of the frequency, in
   strictly a quantum mechanical process, involving the nature of light as
   particles. In a statistical sense, elastic scattering of light by
   numerous particles much smaller than the wavelength of the light is a
   observed result. A small proportion of light scattering from atoms or
   occurs when the frequency of light changes due to local changes with
   Dispersion occurs when different frequencies of light have different
   not absorb light.^[80] In wavelength ranges where a medium has
   light incident at an angle θ to the normal will be refracted at an
   angle arcsin(sin (θ) / n). Thus, blue light, with its higher refractive
   index, is bent more strongly than red light, resulting in the
   where n is the index of refraction and c is the speed of light in a
   negative dispersion. If a light pulse is propagated through a normally
   light the least refracted and blue/violet light the most refracted.
   In the leftmost figure above, the x and y components of the light wave
   linear polarisation of light beams, include the use of prismatic
   linearly polarised light. In this picture, θ[1] – θ[0] = θ[i].
   polariser is placed in a linear polarised beam of light, the intensity,
   I, of the light that passes through is given by
   the initial intensity, and θ[i] is the angle between the light's
   A beam of unpolarised light can be thought of as containing a uniform
   In practice, some light is lost in the polariser and the actual
   transmission of unpolarised light will be somewhat lower than this,
   Brewster's angle.^[97] When light reflects from a thin film on a
   can produce polarisation in the reflected and transmitted light.
Natural light
   of the scattered blue light from the sky.
   atoms or molecules that emit light. The orientation of the electric
   the light is said to be unpolarised. If there is partial correlation
   between the emitters, the light is partially polarised. If the
   polarised light can be described as a superposition of a completely
   describe the light in terms of the degree of polarisation, and the
   Light reflected by shiny transparent materials is partly or fully
   polarised, except when the light is normal (perpendicular) to the
   development of the first mathematical models for polarised light.
   Polarisation occurs when light is scattered in the atmosphere. The
   scattered light produces the brightness and colour in clear skies. This
   partial polarisation of scattered light can be taken advantage of using
   typically relate to the electromagnetic or quantum properties of light
   optics, deals with specifically quantum mechanical properties of light.
   Light detectors, such as photomultipliers and channeltrons, respond to
   Light-emitting diodes and photovoltaic cells, too, cannot be understood
   Specialty areas of optics research include the study of how light
   subjects' terms that mean slightly different things in different parts
   A laser is a device that emits light, a kind of electromagnetic
   is an acronym for 'Light Amplification by Stimulated Emission of
   Radiation'.^[102] Laser light is usually spatially coherent, which
   means that the light either is emitted in a narrow, low-divergence
   to transmit large amounts of information at the speed of light. Other
   bubblegrams, laser light shows, and laser hair removal.^[109]
   result of meeting a standing wave of light. Light can be used to
   is a living optical device. The iris (light brown region), pupil (black
   The human eye functions by focusing light onto a layer of photoreceptor
   Light entering the eye passes first through the cornea, which provides
   much of the eye's optical power. The light then continues through the
   the pupil. The light then passes through the lens, which focuses the
   light further and allows adjustment of focus. The light then passes
   sensitive to different aspects of light.^[110] Rod cells are sensitive
   to the intensity of light over a wide frequency range, thus are
   light. There are, however, twenty times more rod cells than cone cells
   light, but come in three varieties that are sensitive to different
   light as rod cells, most night vision is limited to rod cells.
   converging and diverging lines, in the same way that parallel light
   the conservation of energy and the spreading of light rays over a
   and enhance image stability.^[118] A slightly different variety of
   the collection of light which is determined by the physical size of the
   mirror, the more light collected, and the magnification is still equal
   focus), the less light coming in, so the length of time has to be
   in daylight.^[123]
   The required exposure time depends on how sensitive to light the medium
   very low light sensitivity, and so exposure times had to be long even
   of light off particulates and pollution, as in this photograph of a
   sunlight back into the field of view of the observer. Because blue
   light is scattered more easily than red light, the sun takes on a
   sunlight, and sun dogs. The variation in these kinds of phenomena is
   Mirages are optical phenomena in which light rays are bent due to
   dispersive refraction of light in raindrops. A single reflection off
   Light Across Arts and Sciences: Theories and Practices. V&R unipress
     ^ ^a ^b A.I. Sabra (1981). Theories of light, from Descartes to
   production and transformation of light". In Ter Haar, D. (ed.). The Old
   viewpoint concerning the production and transformation of light].
     ^ R. Feynman (1985). "Chapter 1". QED: The Strange Theory of Light
   Light by Small Particles. Wiley. ISBN 978-0-471-29340-8.
     ^ W. Crawford (1979). The Keepers of Light: A History and Working
   Engineers: Electricity, Magnetism, Light, and Elementary Modern
     * Light and Matter – an open-source textbook, containing a treatment
     * Physics of Light and Optics – Brigham Young University
     * Light
