     * 1 Reflection of light
       (BUTTON) Toggle Reflection of light subsection
   of light, sound and water waves. The law of reflection says that for
   with many types of electromagnetic wave, besides visible light.
Reflection of light
   Reflection of light is either specular (mirror-like) or diffuse
   A mirror provides the most common model for specular light reflection,
   In the diagram, a light ray PO strikes a vertical mirror at point O,
   In fact, reflection of light may occur whenever light travels from a
   light is reflected from the interface, and the remainder is refracted.
   Solving Maxwell's equations for a light ray striking a boundary allows
   how much of the light is reflected, and how much is refracted in a
   reflection of light from a denser medium occurs if the angle of
   When light reflects off a material with higher refractive index than
   contrast, when light reflects off a material with lower refractive
   index the reflected light is in phase with the incident light. This is
   [960px-RefractionReflextion.svg.png] Refraction of light at the
   If the reflecting surface is very smooth, the reflection of light that
   In classical electrodynamics, light is considered as an electromagnetic
   wave, which is described by Maxwell's equations. Light waves incident
   light acts on the electrons in the material, and the moving electrons
   generate fields and become new radiators. The refracted light in the
   the incident light. The reflected light is the combination of the
   When these electrons oscillate with the incident light, the phase
   radians (180°), so the forward radiation cancels the incident light,
   and backward radiation is just the reflected light.
   Light–matter interaction in terms of photons is a topic of quantum
   popular book QED: The Strange Theory of Light and Matter.
   When light strikes the surface of a (non-metallic) material it bounces
   for diffuse reflection is Lambertian reflectance, in which the light is
   The light sent to our eyes by most of the objects we see is due to
   is such that light is returned in the direction from which it came.
   When flying over clouds illuminated by sunlight the region seen around
   incoming and outgoing light the effect is that the eyes act as a strong
   a flashlight.
   In both cases internal reflection causes the light to be reflected back
   automobile license plates reflect light mostly back in the direction
   desired, since the light would then be directed back into the
   headlights of an oncoming car rather than to the driver's eyes.
   When light reflects off a mirror, one image appears. Two mirrors placed
   the light. In practice, these situations can only be approached but not
   In this process (which is also known as phase conjugation), light
   nonlinear optical process. Not only the direction of the light is
     * List of reflected light sources
    2. ^ Mandelstam, L.I. (1926). "Light Scattering by Inhomogeneous
    4. ^ I. Moreno (2010). "Output irradiance of tapered lightpipes"
