     * 1 Electromagnetic spectrum and visible light
     * 2 Speed of light
     * 4 Light sources
     * 6 Light pressure
     * 7 Historical theories about light, in chronological order
       (BUTTON) Toggle Historical theories about light, in chronological
     * 8 Use for light on Earth
Light
   For other uses, see Light (disambiguation). "Visible light" redirects
   here. For other uses, see Visible light (disambiguation).
   dispersing a beam of white light. The longer wavelengths (red) and the
     * Light
   Light, visible light, or visible radiation is electromagnetic radiation
   that can be perceived by the human eye.^[1]^[2] Visible light spans the
   In physics, the term "light" may refer more broadly to electromagnetic
   sense, gamma rays, X-rays, microwaves and radio waves are also light.
   This is why visible radiation is commonly termed visible light.^[7]^[8]
   The primary properties of light are intensity, propagation direction,
   quanta, of light called photons can be detected with specialized
   everyday interactions with light can be understood using geometrical
   The main source of natural light on Earth is the Sun. Historically,
   another important source of light for humans has been fire, from
   electric lights and power systems, electric lighting has effectively
   replaced firelight.
Electromagnetic spectrum and visible light
   visible portion highlighted. The bottom graph (Visible spectrum) is
   perceive as light, ultraviolet, X-rays and gamma rays. The designation
   EMR in the visible light region consists of quanta (called photons)
   light spectrum, EMR becomes invisible to humans (infrared) because its
   Above the frequency range of visible light, ultraviolet light becomes
   light.
   Various sources define visible light as narrowly as
   Plant growth is also affected by the colour spectrum of light, a
Speed of light
   Main article: Speed of light
   of sun light inside the cavity of Rocca ill'Abissu at
   The speed of light in vacuum is defined to be exactly 299792458 m/s
   of light in SI units results from the fact that the metre is now
   defined in terms of the speed of light. All forms of electromagnetic
   Different physicists have attempted to measure the speed of light
   throughout history. Galileo attempted to measure the speed of light in
   light was conducted by Ole Rømer, a Danish physicist, in 1676. Using a
   calculated that light takes about 22 minutes to traverse the diameter
   Another more accurate measurement of the speed of light was performed
   light at a mirror several kilometers away. A rotating cog wheel was
   placed in the path of the light beam as it traveled from the source, to
   of rotation, Fizeau was able to calculate the speed of light as
   conducted experiments on the speed of light from 1877 until his death
   mirrors to measure the time it took light to make a round trip from
   The effective velocity of light in various transparent substances
   speed of light in water is about 3/4 of that in vacuum.
   Two independent teams of physicists were said to bring light to a
   However, the popular description of light being "stopped" in these
   experiments refers only to light being stored in the excited states of
   be light.
   The study of light and the interaction of light and matter is termed
   the wavelength of light is small in comparison to the objects it
   A transparent object allows light to transmit or pass through.
   Conversely, an opaque object does not allow light to transmit through
   and instead reflecting or absorbing the light it receives. Most objects
   do not reflect or transmit light specularly and to some degree scatters
   the incoming light, which is called glossiness. Surface scattering is
   objects, translucent objects allow light to transmit through, but
   translucent objects also scatter certain wavelength of light via
   Refraction is the bending of light rays when passing through a surface
   When a beam of light crosses the boundary between a vacuum and another
   medium, or between two different media, the wavelength of the light
   changes, but the frequency remains constant. If the beam of light is
   The refractive quality of lenses is frequently used to manipulate light
Light sources
   "Lightsource" redirects here. For the solar energy developer named
   Lightsource, see Lightsource Renewable Energy. For a particle
   accelerator used to generate X-rays, see Synchrotron light source.
   Further information: List of light sources
   There are many sources of light. A body at a given temperature emits a
   source is sunlight, the radiation emitted by the chromosphere of the
   the ground is visible.^[25] Another example is incandescent light
   bulbs, which emit only around 10% of their energy as visible light and
   the remainder as infrared. A common thermal light source in history is
   Atoms emit and absorb light at characteristic energies. This produces
   spontaneous, as in light-emitting diodes, gas discharge lamps (such as
   neon lamps and neon signs, mercury-vapor lamps, etc.) and flames (light
   characteristic yellow light). Emission can also be stimulated, as in a
   through a medium faster than the speed of light in that medium can
   called bioluminescence. For example, fireflies produce light by this
   Certain substances produce light when they are illuminated by more
   emit light slowly after excitation by more energetic radiation. This is
   [250px-Colorful_artificial_lighting_at_night.jpg] Hong Kong illuminated
   by colourful artificial lighting
   Certain other mechanisms can produce light:
   When the concept of light is intended to include very-high-energy
   Light is measured with two main alternative sets of units: radiometry
   consists of measurements of light power at all wavelengths, while
   photometry measures light with wavelength weighted with respect to a
   useful, for example, to quantify Illumination (lighting) intended for
   in that they take into account how the human eye responds to light. The
   peaks at a wavelength of around 555 nm. Therefore, two sources of light
   which produce the same intensity (W/m^2) of visible light do not
   "bright" a light appears to be than raw intensity. They relate to raw
Light pressure
   Light exerts physical pressure on objects in its path, a phenomenon
   explained by the particle nature of light: photons strike and transfer
   their momentum. Light pressure is equal to the power of the light beam
   divided by c, the speed of light.  Due to the magnitude of c, the
   effect of light pressure is negligible for everyday objects.  For
   of light pressure is more significant and exploiting light pressure to
   scales, light pressure can cause asteroids to spin faster,^[28] acting
   to light pressure, this interpretation is incorrect; the characteristic
   not be confused with the Nichols radiometer, in which the (slight)
   friction) is directly caused by light pressure.^[32] As a consequence
   of light pressure, Einstein in 1909 predicted the existence of
   Usually light momentum is aligned with its direction of motion.
Historical theories about light, in chronological order
   properties of light. Euclid postulated that light travelled in straight
   atomists, wrote that "The light & heat of the sun; these are composed
   refraction of light in his book Optics.^[37]
   around the early centuries AD developed theories on light. According to
   the Samkhya school, light is one of the five fundamental "subtle"
   Purana refers to sunlight as "the seven rays of the sun".^[38]
   momentary flashes of light or energy. They viewed light as being an
   René Descartes (1596–1650) held that light was a mechanical property of
   of light that assumed, incorrectly, that light travelled faster in a
   was correct in assuming that light behaved like a wave and in
   concluding that refraction could be explained by the speed of light in
   he clearly asserts that light is only a mechanical property of the
   luminous body and the transmitting medium, Descartes's theory of light
   Main article: Corpuscular theory of light
   light which was published posthumously in the 1660s. Isaac Newton
   Descartes's theory of the plenum. He stated in his Hypothesis of Light
   of 1675 that light was composed of corpuscles (particles of matter)
   arguments against the wave nature of light was that waves were known to
   bend around obstacles, while light travelled only in straight lines. He
   did, however, explain the phenomenon of the diffraction of light (which
   had been observed by Francesco Grimaldi) by allowing that a light
   Newton's theory could be used to predict the reflection of light, but
   could only explain refraction by incorrectly assuming that light
   his Opticks of 1704. His reputation helped the particle theory of light
   light led Pierre-Simon Laplace to argue that a body could be so massive
   that light could not escape from it. In other words, it would become
   after a wave theory of light became firmly established as the model for
   light (as has been explained, neither a particle or wave theory is
   fully correct). A translation of Newton's essay on light appears in The
   The fact that light could be polarized was for the first time
   explained all known phenomena of light polarization. At that time the
   "pulse theory" and compared the spreading of light to that of waves in
   suggested that light's vibrations could be perpendicular to the
   mathematical wave theory of light in 1678 and published it in his
   Treatise on Light in 1690. He proposed that light was emitted in all
   The wave theory predicted that light waves could interfere with each
   showed by means of numerous diffraction experiments that light behaved
   wavelengths of light and explained colour vision in terms of
   polarization of light can be explained by the wave theory if light were
   wave theory of light and presented it to the Académie des Sciences in
   suggesting that light must be transverse waves, not the longitudinal
   transverse wave theory of light with no longitudinal
   The weakness of the wave theory was that light waves, like sound waves,
   Newton's corpuscular theory implied that light would travel faster in a
   opposite. At that time, the speed of light could not be measured
   linearly polarized light is rotated when the light rays travel along
   first evidence that light was related to electromagnetism. In 1846 he
   speculated that light might be some form of disturbance propagating
   along magnetic field lines.^[47] Faraday proposed in 1847 that light
   radiation and light. Maxwell discovered that self-propagating
   which happened to be equal to the previously measured speed of light.
   From this, Maxwell concluded that light was a form of electromagnetic
   demonstrating that these waves behaved exactly like visible light,
   needed to explain effects even with visual light that Maxwell's
   suggested that although light was a wave, these waves could gain or
   called these "lumps" of light energy "quanta" (from a Latin word for
   "how much"). In 1905, Albert Einstein used the idea of light quanta to
   explain the photoelectric effect and suggested that these light quanta
   Lewis named these light quanta particles photons.^[49]
   Eventually quantum mechanics came to picture light as (in some sense)
   approximations light can be described sometimes with mathematics
   loses all qualities of one or the other. Visible light, which occupies
   In 1924–1925, Satyendra Nath Bose showed that light followed different
   statistics of light (see degree of coherence). This led to the
   variations between laser light, thermal light, exotic squeezed states,
   etc. as it became understood that light cannot be fully described just
   light consists of photons. Previously unknown quantum states of light
   with characteristics unlike classical states, such as squeezed light
   (e.g. Raman spectroscopy) were found, and mechanical forces of light on
Use for light on Earth
   Sunlight provides the energy that green plants use to create sugars
   generate their own light, a process called bioluminescence. For
   example, fireflies use light to locate mates and vampire squid use it
     * Light beam – in particular about light beams visible from the side
     * Light Fantastic (TV series)
     * Light mill
     * List of light sources
    1. ^ CIE (1987). International Lighting Vocabulary Archived 27
       By the International Lighting Vocabulary, the definition of light
    2. ^ CIE JTC 8. "light, <photometric> noun". CIE S 017/E:2020 ILV:
       International Lighting Vocabulary, 2nd Edition. International
       respond to all the wavelengths of light from 400–700 nm. This is
       p. 50. ISBN 978-0-262-02336-8. Retrieved 11 October 2013. "Light is
       Light in Nature (2nd ed.). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
       to light rays from 390 to 760 nm. This can be extended to a range
       Statistical Method and the Speed of Light". Statistical Science. 15
   19. ^ ^a ^b Newcomb, Simon (1911). "Light" . In Chisholm, Hugh (ed.).
       light between Mount Wilson and Mount San Antonio". Astrophysical
       Researchers now able to stop, restart light". News.harvard.edu.
   26. ^ Tang, Hong (1 October 2009). "May The Force of Light Be With
   36. ^ O'Connor, J J; Robertson, E F (August 2002). "Light through the
   39. ^ ^a ^b Theories of light, from Descartes to Newton A.I. Sabra CUP
   45. ^ James R. Hofmann, André-Marie Ampère: Enlightenment and
     * Wikimedia Commons logo Media related to Light at Wikimedia Commons
   Wiktionary logo The dictionary definition of light at Wiktionary
     Quotations related to Light at Wikiquote
     * Light
     * Starlight
     * Sunlight
          + Light
     * Light-on-dark
          + Lightness
     * Lighting
   "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Light&oldid=1353471500"
     * Light
   Light
