   Elementary particle or quantum of light
   This article is about the elementary particle or quantum of light. For
   A photon (from Ancient Greek φῶς, φωτός (phôs, phōtós) 'light') is an
   including electromagnetic radiation such as light and radio waves, and
   particles that can only move at one speed, the speed of light measured
   introduced the idea that light itself is made of discrete units of
   Single photons have been shown to travel at the speed of light in
   [250px-Light_cone_colour.svg.png] The cone shows possible values of
   is called the reduced Planck constant and c is the speed of light.
   Main articles: Photon polarization and Spin angular momentum of light
   photon polarization. (Beams of light also exhibit properties described
   as orbital angular momentum of light).
   states of circular polarization. Collections of photons in a light beam
   may have mixtures of these two values; a linearly polarized light beam
   The spin angular momentum of light does not depend on its frequency,
   (redder) photons moving slightly slower than higher-energy photons.
   Relativity would be unaffected by this; the so-called speed of light,
   c, would then not be the actual speed at which light moves, but a
   frequency dependence of the speed of light. If Coulomb's law is not
   Sharper upper limits on the mass of light have been obtained in
   Main article: Light
   similar effects observed with light supported a wave model and not
   Newton's particle theory of light.^[20]^: 964 
   In most theories up to the eighteenth century, light was pictured as
   for the refraction, diffraction and birefringence of light, wave
   theories of light were proposed by René Descartes (1637),^[36] Robert
   Fresnel clearly demonstrated the interference and diffraction of light,
   Maxwell's 1865 prediction^[41] that light was an electromagnetic wave –
   models of light.
   [330px-Light-wave.svg.png] In 1900, Maxwell's theoretical model of
   light as oscillating electric and magnetic fields seemed complete.
   of electromagnetic radiation, leading to the idea that light-energy was
   these light-quanta also carry momentum and, thus, can be considered
   of light. The Maxwell theory predicts that the energy of a light wave
   by light to atoms depends only on the light's frequency, not on its
   light of frequency higher than a certain threshold; light of frequency
   shining light of sufficiently high frequency on it (the photoelectric
   light's frequency, not to its intensity.^[43]
   Since the Maxwell theory of light allows for all possible energies of
   explained if the energy of a Maxwellian light wave were localized into
   to 1923, most physicists were reluctant to accept that light itself was
   electromagnetic field model of light, the so-called BKS theory.^[54] An
   theory of light with its experimentally observed particle nature. The
   definitive; since it relied on the interaction of light with matter,
   that cannot be explained by any classical theory of light, since they
   caused by light quanta – photons
   Einstein published a paper in which he proposed that many light-related
   called these a light quantum (German: ein Lichtquant).^[62]
   The name photon derives from the Greek word for light, φῶς
   physics.^[5] The use of the term photon for the light quantum was
   key experiment demonstrating light quanta, cited Lewis in the 1927
   then completely stop, light in 1999^[83] and 2001.^[84]
   further developments in the quantum treatment of light, which led to
   photon. A probabilistic nature of light-particle motion was first
   generally, of the splitting of light beams at interfaces into a
   variables in the light particle determined which of the two paths a
   polarized light. However, the transient virtual photons of quantum
   Light that travels through transparent matter does so at a lower speed
   than c, the speed of light in vacuum. The factor by which the speed is
   classical wave picture, the slowing can be explained by the light
   radiating new light, and that new light interfering with the original
   light wave to form a delayed wave. In a particle picture, the slowing
   they cannot travel at c. Light of different frequencies may travel
   slow speeds of light in matter. The effects of photon interactions with
   classical theory of light. The laser is an important application and is
   absorption and to determine the frequency of the light emitted from a
     * Variable speed of light
    5. ^ ^a ^b ^c Kragh, Helge (2014). "Photon: New light on an old name".
       New Light on Single-Photon Interferences". Europhysics Letters. 1
   28. ^ Mermin, David (February 1984). "Relativity without light".
   40. ^ Buchwald, J. Z. (1989). "The Rise of the Wave Theory of Light:
       2010-08-25. "According to this picture, the energy of a light wave
       wave–particle duality of light and quantum theory, 1900–1920".
       X-rays by light elements". Physical Review. 21 (5): 483–502.
       new light on single-photon interferences". Europhysics Letters. 1
       R.E.; Beck, M. (2004). "Observing the quantum behavior of light in
   68. ^ Taylor, G. I. (1909). "Interference Fringes with Feeble Light".
   83. ^ Cuneo, Michael (1999-02-18). "Physicists Slow Speed of Light".
   84. ^ "Light Changed to Matter, Then Stopped and Moved".
       10.5 (influence of gravity on light) in Stephani, H.; Stewart, J.
   118. ^ "The Solar Interior". Marshall Space Flight Center: Solar
       of light that could drive the quantum computing revolution".
     Feynman, Richard (1985). QED: The Strange Theory of Light and Matter.
   for a photon anticorrelation effect on a beam splitter: A new light on
   Roychoudhuri, C.; Rajarshi, R. (2003). "The nature of light: What is a
     Zajonc, A. (2003). "Light reconsidered". Optics and Photonics News.
     Glauber, R. (2005). "One Hundred Years of Light Quanta" (PDF). Nobel
     Hentschel, K. (2007). "Light quanta: The maturing of a concept by the
   E.; Beck, M. (2004). "Observing the quantum behavior of light in an
